Israel's military says its soldiers have
discovered a tunnel shaft used by Hamas
militants at alifa hospital in Northern
Gaza Israeli troops released an
unverified video of the tunnel entrance
after they took control of the hospital
Israel's attacks are controversial since
hospitals have special protections under
International humanitarian law unless
they are being used for a military
purpose this says Israel is the Smoking
Gun that proves Hamas has been using
alifa hospital for its
operations after a second day of raids
on gaza's biggest medical facility the
Israel Defense Forces said they
uncovered a tunnel shaft and a vehicle
containing a large number of
weapons IDF forces found a tunnel shaft
in shifa hospital and teams of Engineers
are currently uncovering the
infrastructure there we also found a
vehicle that had been prepared for the
Massacre on October 7th but didn't leave
we found many weapons in
it it comes after footage was released
showing caches of weapons Israel says
were hidden around the hospital Hamas
continues to deny the claims describing
them as quote repetition of a false
narrative since the conflict broke out
Israel repeatedly claimed that Hamas was
using Gaz and hospitals for military
purposes
and as the humanitarian situation in
Gaza worsens International condemnation
has gotten louder and Israel has been
under increasing pressure to offer
definitive proof of these
claims but in a situation as tend as
this and with daily reminders of the
civilians suffering in Gaza it's not
clear that this new evidence will
lighten that
burden well in a few moments we'll be
hearing from Israel's ambassador to
Germany but first DW correspondent T ker
joins us from Jerusalem uh to give us
the latest T the Israeli Army is
reportedly still at the alifa hospital
uh compound what's the
latest well the Israeli Army released a
statement on Thursday evening saying
that they are conducting still targeted
searches on the uh alifa uh compound
it's the largest hospital so they say it
will you know it takes time uh they
released those videos uh that you
mentioned in the
report showing reportedly a tunnel shaft
inside the compound and also a vehicle
loaded with weapons they also said
they're operating into other hospitals
the rantisi hospital and the aluts
hospital um but this is the latest
update we have this is from Thursday
night there's no new update as to uh
what exactly is happening right now
there in the hospital we only know there
is a communication blackout as well in
Gaza right now as the fuel ran out for
the generators to power up the
communication system that's was
confirmed by the Palestinian telec
company uh palel and we also know from
the humanitarian organizations they're
very very concerned about the situation
of course in the North in those
hospitals uh while these uh Army uh
operations are going on in the hospitals
there are patients there in alifa the
medical staff and also uh many uh um
internally displaced people they were
looking for shelter there thinking they
are protected and uh organizations like
wh world the World Health Organization
is saying that many of the hospitals are
running out of service uh they cannot
provide services injured people cannot
come to the hospitals there's air
bombardment going on uh uh and the
ground operations so there's no really
safe space at the moment uh for
residents neither in the north but also
in the South there are also reports from
air strikes on uh the southern area
where many people residents from the
north were told to go as a safer space
but air strikes are also reported from
the south of the Gaza Strip now Israel
says it has recovered the remains of two
hostages held by Hamas what more can you
tell
us well they announced this morning that
they uh found the remains of a 19yearold
soldier uh she was uh uh doing her her
service on October 7th was taken hostage
uh to uh Gaza they found it in a
structure as they say adjacent to uh
shiffer hospital now transferred the
remains to Israel uh where the funeral
will take place uh today as well as on
Thursday night uh they found the remains
of another hostage uh a woman in her 60s
from kibuts beri her husband was uh
killed on October 7 she was taken uh to
Gaza and uh apparently killed in Gaza uh
so this is a very worrying sign for many
families and relatives there actually uh
is a big March underway uh through uh
Israel they are they say they're
arriving uh this Marge of relatives and
supporters of the hostages uh 239 still
held in Gaza in Jerusalem on Saturday
night to demand answers from the
government uh why are they not
progressing with a potential hostage
deal to free the
hostages uh now we're hearing reports
that isra forces have carried out
overnight raids in the occupied West
Bank do you have any more information on
that briefly
please yeah there have been uh many
raids since October 7th we've seen this
already in the past year but they have
intensified and one main focus is the
Northern West Bank Town of Janine and
the occupied West Bank uh there have
been also a drone strike uh uh at least
three militants or three people have
been killed there uh we are seeing more
and more activity of the Israeli Army
and uh also according to Y AA at least
186 Palestinians have been killed uh in
since October 7 in the occupied West
Bank as well as four Israelis that have
been killed tww correspondent T ker
they're reporting from Jerusalem thank
you very
much now I want to welcome Ron prha to
the uh Studio Israel's um ambassador to
Germany thanks for making the time to
join us here on DW news there's a lot to
discuss and uh I'd like to begin with
disc current the current events in Gaza
do you anything first of all do you
anything more about the uh remains of
the hostages that have been found no but
U I Just Want U everyone who basically
looks at us to understand the amazing
challenges that we have so we have two
goals here in this war one to really
dismantle Kamas infrastructure and its
leadership and the other to get the
hostages back home to navigate there is
absolutely problematic because we can't
really go after the tunnels we can't go
full steam ahead we have to be very
cautious and as you see until now we're
nearly five weeks after the 7th of
October we still can't identify all the
bodies just think of what what what they
really passed so those are challenges
that we're dealing with as we speak
moving and of course you saw not just
hospitals but mosques Schools they're
really using and abusing everything that
you know Western civilizations basically
see as you know something which is
absolutely
normal uh I'd like to come back to the
current events in Gaza your prime
minister has said that Israel is now
unable to minim civilian casualties and
accusing Hamas of preventing civilians
from M moving to safer locations uh does
that mean that Israel will now give up
on protecting civilians absolutely
exactly the opposite as you see we're
working slowly and cautiously and we are
going from room to room house to house
Department after department just think
who would basically think that in an MRI
scanner Department you'll find
kalashnikov's hand grenades I mean this
is not exactly a usual equipment for MRI
scanners so I would say that yes Kamas
is abusing we're giving safe havens
Hamas is shooting after its own people
we basically giving you know Fuel and
leaving it out before hospitals Hamas
doesn't allow humanitarian Aid comes in
you saw the the footage Hamas doesn't
allow its own population to take food
and medicine and water out of those
uh cars that bring them in you mentioned
the safe havens there but the uh IDF
chief of the general staff today said uh
that they are nearly finished uh in in
the north of Gaza will direct their
operations to other areas of Gaza I
would assume that means the South an
area that you or Israel has said to be a
safe haven uh are people in the South
safe and will they stay safe yeah Safe
Haven is a safe haven yes we will we are
now moving over to the South part of
Gaza because we are we basically
completed the issue in the northern part
of
Gaza but the safe haven in contrast to
Kamas that basically breaches everything
that it says and acts in a barbarian way
I mean there's no way for me to again
you know basically say what they what
they did H we we really really make sure
that the population is that goes out to
those safe havens is going to be safe
but still there there's attack in there
will be attack on the south there will
be bombardment on the on the south I
mean how can you still call that a safe
haven well if they move out in places
which we Define a safe havens they're
going to be safe inside those uh places
where Hamas command and control centers
and everything else I I would suggest
they move out of there we ask by the way
look at us you know this is a war zone
okay we ask people to move out we give
them and say hey if you don't go out
this place is going to be attacked we do
everything according to the most that we
can in order for you know innocent
people not to be hurt but we have to
understand we have it with not just a
terrorist organization but you know they
are they are barbarians there's no other
way to describe it and we have to deal
with that in order to protect at the end
of the day Israel and Israel will never
be the same as before the 7th of October
we'll never go back to having Kamas or
anyone else on our borders can B that
can basically have the opportunity to uh
H to butcher Israelis and we come we
come to to that in the second I still
want to stay on the subject of the of
South Gaza I mean there's already at
least a million people there in in in a
very small area and it now to me it
feels like they're being squeezed
further and further and further uh in
into places and the humanitarian
situation on the ground already is
dire well the only thing I can say about
that that uh we are doing the best that
we can I think we see more and more H
also on the international side and the
Egyptian side with you know field
hospitals we're allowing everything but
as you see as we speak Rockets are still
flying out towards Israel from the south
those places that where they have
rockets and they have weapons and they
have infrastructure we will go after
them we will make sure because no one no
country can live with something like
that and the leadership and's
infrastructure will be
destroyed would there have been another
way after October 7th to deal with Hamas
H the answer to that is unfortunately no
we tried you you're now talking to
someone who is the director general of
Israel's Foreign Service when we
disengage completely out of Gaza we took
out 22 settlements out we left Gaza
completely we took out also four
settlements in the West Bank to show
that there's political Horizon there's
not one Israeli or one set in Gaza and
we gave people working permits because
we thought that doing that would
basically create some perspective the
same ones that went out to work in the
kibuts Drew Maps where the families are
where the children there's a dog there's
a door and a a window and they went the
Kamas came with very very good maps of
where are the kindergartens so they
themselves were part of this we tried
containment we tried containment the
same way that people in Europe had you
know a vandal handle you know and this
didn't work containment doesn't work why
doesn't work because the ideology we
trivialize the ideology when they said
we want to basically destroy Israel we
want to throw Israel we can't allow Jews
to live there we trivialized it no we
will never do that again and I hope also
in Europe in the west people will not
trivialize the ideology that now you see
in many parts in Europe uh Israel's
government has come under attack it is a
not only from outside Israel but also uh
from within do you think the Israeli
response would have been different the
retaliation would have been different
had Israel had a more left leaning
government say here thank you for the
question the ab the answer is absolutely
no Israel as you know we are discussing
this is a vibrant democracy and in the
sense there's no one in Israel left or
right Kamas didn't really make a diff
you know a for Kamas it wasn't a
difference if you a conservative Jew a
secular Jew if you're left or right many
that were butchered were basically
dedicated their lives to making peace
with Palestinians the answer is
absolutely not and what I'm really proud
of is that now when Israel is really
under attack people come together
Israelis that went and climbed the I
don't know mountains in Nepal or we're
out in the you know in Goa in India all
come back to the units when we're United
there's no one we're unbeatable uh let's
talk uh about the international reaction
and the the support or the the waning
support uh for for Israel at the moment
there's an opinion poll this month here
in in Germany that the majority of
Germans for example are critical of
Israel's uh war in in Gaza uh the
international opposition that you are
facing even from your friends uh does
that bother you no because if after a
massacre like that in the 7th of
October a people in the world cannot
understand why Israel has a right to
defend itself then wow and having said
that the German government from the
president to Chan schs to Vice
Chancellor Hab to the foreign minister
defense minister from day one the only
side someone decent can be is on the
side of Israel we see that support very
clear on in in the German system and yes
I think there's a gap between the
government and part of the population
but I also see that there is an
understanding here in Germany when you
see what's happening here on the streets
you know demonstrations in Essen you
know of saying they want a new califi
and here in Berlin I think there's an
understanding that if you don't deal
with this ideology and these people
today you will unfortunately cry
tomorrow uh turkey's president re T
erdogan is in Berlin today he has called
Israel a terrorist State and Hamas
Freedom Fighters do you think Germany is
still right to host him you know I I I'm
not going to give advice to Germany to
host or not I think that the German
government is going to do the right
thing but it must be heart to stomach
and and but you know this is uh Germany
the thing is what do you say to him and
I think that you know when you hear Eran
talking know he's the last one to preach
us you
know in the way he hosts the Kamas
terrorists and uh I think that H turkey
being an amazing an important strategic
country in the
region onean is on the wrong side of
history and
unfortunately uh one should also clearly
tell him that uh now let's come back to
uh the future of of Gaza uh over
Netanyahu has said that Israel will
control the overall security of Gaza
after the war does that mean that that's
been it for self-governance of the
Palestinians in Gaza no I think it would
be fair to say that netan and no one in
Israel think that we should politically
basically control Gaza but militarily we
should be able to go back and every time
someone puts in a rocket or something
else we will be able to really control
that how do you do that that's hard
but we won't allow this military
Machinery this Terror state to be again
with weapons rockets and this has to be
structured differently but then how how
you going to do this without a constant
military presence in Gaza ER we H as you
s as you saw we H we have a we don't
have a constant military present in the
West Bank and we're still able to do
that H I think we everyone who who
really wants peace in this region let's
try and think about it okay this wasn't
coincidential we were coming near to
peace with Saudi Arabia there's no
coincidence that basically Kamas
operated who do we see working we see
thetis foren proxies of Iran we see
kisala up in the north basically
conducting nearly war against us we see
Hamas those who really want peace should
understand that only taking out Hamas
and creating a regional
Corporation H in the region maybe with
Arab countries uh like the Saudis like
the Emirates like Jordan and Egypt we
will be able to build a structure that
in essence will allow us to move to the
next stage and just think logically we
left Gaza what interest do we have in
Gaza we left Gaza never to look back
into Gaza and they if you know it's
going to be quiet in Israel it's going
to be quiet in Gaza it's a very simple
equation that people should think about
and at the end of the day all people who
really want peace have to understand
that Hamas cannot stay with its Terror
infrastructure now the uh let's go back
to um and distinguish between Israel and
the Jews especially here in Germany
there's been a wave of
anti-Semitism uh on social media on the
streets uh uh everywhere uh and also in
here in in Germany uh do you see a link
between that current military operation
in Gaza and this rise in anti-Semitism
logically you would say that there's a
link but if you look back before the 7th
of October you saw you know the way
synagogues the way just think simple
stuff you know synagogue Jewish Schools
they're all protected you don't see you
know churches or Moss being protected H
there's a lot of anti-em mytic
um actions taking place it has no
connection with the 7th of October what
is amazing for me that after the 7th of
October it even you know rose up but the
fact that Jews here in Germany and not
just in Germany in Europe don't feel
safe going to the esan or talking in
Hebrew or putting a
keepa someone we really have to work
together so that does not happen
and I think yes you see more
anti-semitic incidents taking place but
if you look back there were many before
the 7th of October so I don't see a
direct link here for pro then the
Israeli ambassador to Germany thank you
very much for taking the time to talk to
us today there's a lot more to discuss
but we have to leave it there thank you
thank you very much thank you for having
me